{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Uta Hagen's nine questions helps you be present in a scene by understanding the key facts that exist in each moment. \
\
Who am I? (Character description, personality, behavior, backstory)\
Where am I? (Often found in scene slug, location of this scene)\
What time is it? (Time of day gives us insight in to what behavior we might have)\
What surrounds me? (Use imagination to create the scene, environment with details. You want to defictionalize the fiction) \
What are the circumstances? (What events have happened to my character that has led to this moment)\
What are my relationships? (Who am I talking to?, How do I feel about them?, Whats my relationship or history with this location?, How do I feel about it?)\
What do I want? (What is the goal you are trying to achieve in this moment?, What do you want another character to do or feel?)\
What is my obstacle? (Define the conflict in the scene, what is stopping you from reaching your goal?)\
What do I do to get what I want? (What behaviors or actions will you use to get what you want?)\
\
Scene breakdown is essential: Actors need to understand the scene's theme and what is happening in the scene. This helps the actor to contextualize their reactions, emotions, and body language. Actors should ask themselves what type of scene they are in, what the other actor is saying, and how they should react based on their character's traits and motivations.\
\
#The Moment Before\
The \'93moment before\'94 is a technical acting term that refers to what\'92s happening in the life of the character right before an actor walks out on stage or a director yells \'93action\'94 in TV and film.\
It is one of the parts of an actor\'92s toolbox that helps the actor explore the inner life of the character, by asking themselves what happened right before the scene starts.\
As an exercise, actors can imagine what\'92s happened sixty seconds before the start of the scene, thirty seconds, ten seconds, and finally one second before. The reason for this is because the "moment before\'94 is a critical part of the process for actors to perform the scene.\
It contains events, emotions, thoughts, images, relationships, conflicts, physical conditions, objectives, and other mental and emotional information which the character is going through before the director yells \'93action.\'94\
Actors can utilize the \'93moment before\'94 by giving themselves a place to come from, both physically and emotionally. Create a \'93moment before\'94 that has a different energy than the scene, it helps add Urgency and Raises the Stakes.\
For example, you may be thinking about finally asking the girl you like out on a date. You spent the day mustering up the courage, going out to the mall to get expensive clothes, if you start the scene on an emotional high, you have more places to go when you\'92re confronted with the girl of your dreams telling you she\'92s interested in the school bully instead.\
Lastly, the \'93moment before\'94 is one of the only times, the energy of the scene can be directed inwards to the actor. It\'92s a \'93me\'94 moment and the surprise of someone else entering our world catapults the energy of the scene into the classic dialogue and back and forth we\'92re all used to seeing. \
\
The Button\
Most actors are familiar with the \'93moment before\'94 but what is often forgotten is the moment after or \'93the button.\'94\
Your character had a life before the scene and will continue to have a life after the scene is done and that\'92s where \'93the button\'94 comes in.\
Often times actors are unsure how to end the scene and in most cases the last piece of text or beat is fine, however in certain circumstances using a \'93button\'94 is a great way to show the full emotional range of a character.\
Imagine an actor is fighting with their spouse in the scene over who ate the last muffin. At the end of the scene, the couple makes up but as a \'93button\'94 the actress auditioning breaks into tears of frustration or tries to lighten the mood and make her spouse laugh with a funny face or \'93It wasn\'92t that good, don\'92t worry.\'94\
The \'93button\'94 tells casting directors that you are an advanced actor that understands where the story is heading.\
\'93Buttons\'94 come up a lot in commercial auditions, where the final moment is a reaction or the CD wants you to continue the action you began with.\
Like the \'93moment before\'94 an actors \'93button\'94 is also a rare moment of \'93me\'94 time and the actor can bring the attention inwards again.\
\
\
In the realm of acting, the significance of silence is frequently disregarded. Numerous actors prioritize their spoken lines, conveyed emotions, and physical gestures. Nevertheless, the potential of silence should not be underestimated. Skillfully employing moments of silence can elevate a performance, generate suspense, and mesmerize spectators.\
The actor\'92s toolkit is enhanced by the potency of silence, as it allows for the expression of emotions and thoughts without depending on spoken language. By utilizing physicality, facial cues, and delicate movements, the actor can communicate a wealth of information. When employed skillfully, silence has the ability to convey a multitude of emotions and establish a profound bond with the audience.\
One of the fundamental aspects of utilizing silence is active listening. By listening attentively to their scene partners, actors can respond in a genuine and natural manner. This active listening involves not just hearing the words spoken but also understanding the subtext and the emotional undercurrents beneath the dialogue. It requires the actor to be fully present in the moment and to react authentically to their surroundings.\
The power of silence is particularly evident in moments of heightened tension or conflict. When a character is faced with a significant choice or a crucial turning point, silence can amplify the stakes and create a sense of anticipation. By withholding words, the actor invites the audience to project their own interpretations onto the scene, generating a level of engagement and emotional investment that would be difficult to achieve with dialogue alone.\
The absence of words can also serve as a potent means of expressing intricate emotions. During times of sorrow, bereavement, or self-reflection, silence can be more impactful than any lengthy speech. By letting feelings simmer beneath the surface, an actor has the capacity to convey a profound inner turmoil or vulnerability that deeply resonates with the audience. The actor\'92s skill lies in their aptitude for communication beyond mere words.\
During times of sorrow, bereavement, or self-reflection, the lack of words can carry a stronger impact than any speech. By permitting emotions to remain unspoken but deeply felt, an actor can convey a profound inner turmoil or fragility that deeply touches the audience. The actor\'92s capacity to communicate without depending solely on verbal expression holds the key to this power.\
Silence can be used to create a sense of rhythm and pacing within a performance. Just as a composer uses rests and pauses in music to create tension and build anticipation, actors can use strategic moments of silence to guide the flow of a scene. By varying the tempo and intensity of the silence, an actor can control the emotional arc of their character and the overall narrative.\
Another aspect of harnessing the power of silence is the effective use of stillness. In a world filled with constant movement and noise, stillness can be incredibly compelling. By deliberately slowing down and embracing stillness, an actor can command attention and draw focus to their presence. The contrast between motion and stillness can be a captivating theatrical device, highlighting the significance of a character\'92s actions or thoughts.\
Actors need to develop a profound self-assurance and trust in both themselves and their colleagues. They should feel at ease with moments of silence and refrain from feeling compelled to fill them with unnecessary actions or sounds. This demands self-control and an openness to the unfamiliar, enabling the transformative influence of silence to take effect. This drives me nuts because I like to talk. Even right now, I have the desire to continue writing.\
The power of silence can also have practical advantages for actors. It can help them develop a stronger stage presence, as well as improve their ability to engage with the audience and command attention. Moreover, by mastering the art of silence, actors can become more adept at communicating non-verbally, which can be invaluable in auditions and on-screen performances where dialogue may be limited.\
By attentively listening, embracing tranquility, and having faith in nonverbal communication, actors can access the profound and subtle aspects that silence brings. Therefore, when you find yourself on stage or facing a camera, keep in mind the potency of silence and allow it to convey a multitude of emotions in your portrayal.\
Below are some examples to draw from:\
 is renowned for his adeptness at utilizing silence in his acting. Among his most memorable portrayals is that of Hannibal Lecter in \'93The Silence of the Lambs.\'94 Throughout the movie, Hopkins\'92s character emanates an understated yet formidable energy, frequently communicating volumes through a mere glance or a faint grin rather than relying on dialogue. This controlled and restrained portrayal not only garnered him an Academy Award but also served as a striking demonstration of silence\'92s ability to construct a mesmerizing and disconcerting persona.\
\
\
\
#Nonverbal acting is important \
Nonverbal acting is essential in creating dynamic and believable characters. \
requires as much effort as delivering lines: Nonverbal acting is more than just looking at the other actor while they speak. It involves processing information, emotions, and reactions in real-time while also considering the character's motivations and traits. Good nonverbal acting requires an actor to stay engaged and active even while not speaking.\
Nonverbal acting is the art of conveying emotions, thoughts, and ideas through body language, facial expressions, and other nonverbal cues.\
Nonverbal acting is important because it helps actors create dynamic and believable characters. It also allows them to convey emotions and ideas that may not be expressed through dialogue.\
\
#Listening and hearing are different\
In acting, it is essential to distinguish between listening and hearing. Hearing is simply processing sound, but listening is understanding what is being said and responding to it. Good listening means that the actor is fully engaged in the conversation, processing not only the words but also the meaning, subtext, and context. This helps the actor understand their character's motivations and reactions.\
\
#Process the feeling and meaning behind the words: \
As an actor, it is crucial to process the emotions and meanings behind the words spoken by the other actor. This requires the actor to ask themselves what the information means to them, how it makes them feel, and what they should do about it. She gave the example of an actor being told they are being fired. The actor should process the information and react to it accordingly, showing their confusion or worry through their body language and facial expressions. By understanding their character's motivations and traits, and by processing the emotions and meanings behind the words spoken by the other actor, actors can create a more dynamic and engaging performance.\
\
#Scene breakdown is essential: \
Actors need to understand the scene's theme and what is happening in the scene. This helps the actor to contextualize their reactions, emotions, and body language. The video suggested that actors should ask themselves what type of scene they are in, what the other actor is saying, and how they should react based on their character's traits and motivations.\
\
#Inner monologue and inner dialogue are crucial: Actors should have an inner monologue or dialogue, depending on their character's traits. An inner monologue is a conversation that the actor is having with themselves, while an inner dialogue is a conversation between two parts of the actor's mind. \
\
\
#Strasberg Method\
Acting from memory is a technique from  or as he called it, \'93affective memory, summoning emotions from the actors\'92 own life to illuminate their stage roles.\'94 In other words, Strassberg\'92s teachings instruct the actors to remember the details surrounding an emotional experience in their own life that could correspond to the emotion of a character in a scene. \
\
#Meisner Method\
The Meisner technique steps away from memory and delves into imagination. Meisner does not use the actor\'92s own memory and experiences, instead, the method asks to relate and apply the actor\'92s self in an imaginary circumstance. Meisner\'92s technique serves actors when it comes to honing their listening skills and reacting to the other actors in scenes. The foundation work begins with exercises like repetition, individual activities, and emotional preparation. At the beginning of the Meisner training, an actor is taught to work all from himself or herself. Answering the questions, \'93What are they doing, and how do I feel about it?\'94 From the actor\'92s perspective. The thought being, how would you know how other characters would react if you don\'92t know how you would react first.\
\
#Adler Method\
Acting wholly from imagination is a technique from Stella Adler. Adler visited Stanislavski eight weeks before he died, at the end of his life, this is what he said, Strasberg misunderstood, Stanislavski did use emotional memory, but it did not work and was abandoned under the premise and under the philosophy: the sane mind must heal.\
The Stella Adler technique is a series of exercises that start with the actors\'92 reality and ends entirely with their imagination, completely removed from their own experiences and feelings.\
The first exercise of the Stella Adler Technique is the only exercise that exists in the actor\'92s reality. The actor must go out and see something in nature, come back to class, and describe it. The objective of this exercise is to translate an image be able to describe it in such length that I can see what the actor sees, then that actor can work out of their imagination.\
In this technique, the actor\'92s imagination must be equal to the reality. Imagination and reality must be congruent. This is not easy, and it takes much rehearsal.\
\
#Practical Aesthetics method \
The Practical Aesthetics method asks four questions to break down a scene:\
The \'93Literal\'94 \'97 What is literally taking place in a scene\
The \'93Want\'94 \'97 What does the character want to do or say in a given scene. This is their overall goal. \
The \'93Essential Action\'94 \'97 The most essential want of the character. Basically boiling down the \'93want\'94 to an essential drive or human desire. \
The \'93As If\'94 \'97 Relating the questions above to the actor\'92s life, in a metaphorical sense, and not based on real experience or memory. If the essential action is \'93Revenge for my family,\'94 the as ifcould be \'93As if the school bully beat up my younger brother. I need to find a way to get back at the bully and stand up for my brother.\'94\
\
#Analyzing a script \
is an integral part of an actor's preparation process. It involves delving deep into the text to understand the story, characters, themes, and the relationships between them. By unraveling the layers of a script, actors can bring depth and authenticity to their performances, breathing life into their characters. \
Script analysis is the foundation upon which a compelling performance is built. By thoroughly analyzing the script, actors gain a comprehensive understanding of the characters, their motivations, and the overall narrative structure. This knowledge allows them to make informed choices and bring a unique perspective to their portrayal.\
Familiarizing Yourself with the Story\
Before diving into the intricacies of character analysis, it is essential to familiarize yourself with the story as a whole. Read the script multiple times, paying attention to the plot, key events, and the emotional journey of the characters. Understanding the overarching narrative will provide a solid foundation for your analysis.\
Identifying the Theme and Subtext\
Every script has underlying themes and subtext that contribute to its richness. Look beyond the surface-level dialogue and actions to identify the deeper meanings and messages embedded within the script. This will help you connect with the material on a profound level and bring a layered performance to the stage or screen.\
\
\
\
Analyzing Dialogue and Relationships\
The dialogue in a script provides valuable insights into the relationships between characters. Analyze the exchanges, subtext, and dynamics to uncover the nuances and tensions within these relationships. This analysis will enable you to create compelling chemistry and interactions with your fellow actors.\
\
Exploring the Script's Structure\
Act Breakdown: Unraveling the Plot\
Analyze the script's structure by breaking it down into acts and examining the key events and turning points in each act. Understand how the story unfolds and how your character fits into the overall narrative arc. This analysis will guide you in building a strong foundation for your performance.\
\
Scene Analysis: Capturing the Essence\
Individual scenes play a vital role in conveying the story and character development. Analyze each scene to identify its purpose, emotional beats, and the objectives of the characters involved. This analysis will allow you to bring depth and intention to your portrayal, scene by scene.\
\
Transition and Flow: Connecting the Dots\
Pay attention to the transitions between scenes and acts. Identify the flow of the script and how one scene leads into the next. Understanding the seamless connection between different parts of the script will help you maintain the momentum and engage the audience throughout the performance.\
\
\
}